---
company: branch
url: branch.com
highlight: "Before Upstash we used Redis Cloud. This was not serverless, you had to think about instance size, memory usage etc. which we really don't want to do as it pulls our focus from product engineering, any time spent on operations like this is less time spent on our products and what differentiates Branch."
---

#### Introduce Branch to the Upstash community.

Branch is a personal insurance carrier built on advanced technology that offers affordable home and auto insurance
to users. We're the only carrier that allows you to instantly bundle home and auto coverage, and we also allow you
to purchase renters, condo, and umbrella insurance. We're a series-C startup and our last raise valued us at $1.05
billion.

#### Tell us about your tech stack.

Our tech stack is entirely serverless which is rare in a highly regulated industry like ours. Our philosophy has
been to leverage managed services and offload undifferentiated heavy lifting to our vendors and focus all of our
software development resources on things that differentiate Branch from others. In practice this has allowed us to
maintain an extremely lean software development team of around 20 people while still delivering new features and
launching our products in new states much faster than was previously thought possible. We rely on AWS as our primary
cloud provider, we use GraphQL with AWS AppSync in all of our applications, all of our compute is on AWS Lambda,
DynamoDB is our primary database, and Cognito as our authentication provider. We like to pick the best tools for the
job and don't limit ourselves to AWS however -- which is why we use Algolia for search, Neon for our relational
database workloads, and of course Upstash for our Redis workload.

#### Tell us about your use case of Upstash

We use Upstash's Redis product as a cache, to maintain state like when a workflow was last run, the last record that
was processed by a workflow, and for things like rate limiting and deduplicating messages we receive from services
that have at-least-once delivery like webhooks, and messaging queues.

#### Before Upstash: What were you using before Upstash?

Before Upstash we used Redis Cloud. This was not serverless, you had to think about instance size, memory usage etc.
which we really don't want to do as it pulls our focus from product engineering, any time spent on operations like
this is less time spent on our products and what differentiates Branch. The pricing model also didn't really work
for us because we greatly prefer to be billed based on usage. The need for persistent connections to communicate
with Redis was also a problem for us, as it doesn't really well with our compute model. All of our compute is on AWS
Lambda, which means every request is isolated, and so every request that needed to work with Redis would have to
open its own connection. This means that 10,000 requests -- which really isn't a lot -- would have 10,000 Lambdas
opening 10,000 connections to Redis.

#### After Upstash: How did Upstash improve things? What was its impact?

The biggest compliment that we can give Upstash is that we've never had to think about it since we adopted it.
Upstash's billing based usage, and the option for a HTTP-based request-response style of communication (while still
supporting persistent connections for compatibility with existing code that touches Redis) has meant that if a
developer thinks it's appropriate to use Redis to solve a problem, they just use Upstash without having to think
about load / memory usage / storage size / number of connections / any other resource constraints. Having that sort
of reliable, zero-surprises infrastructure that you never have to worry about frees up so much time that can be
spent on product engineering and working on things that actually make a difference to our customers and business,
instead of baby-sitting servers. That's how we like to work at Branch and Upstash has been an amazing fit for us.
